bats(1) -- Bash Automated Testing System
========================================


SYNOPSIS
--------

bats [-c] [-p | -t] <test> [<test> ...]

<test> is the path to a Bats test file, or the path to a directory
containing Bats test files.


DESCRIPTION
-----------

Bats is a TAP-compliant testing framework for Bash. It provides a simple
way to verify that the UNIX programs you write behave as expected.

A Bats test file is a Bash script with special syntax for defining
test cases. Under the hood, each test case is just a function with a
description.

Test cases consist of standard shell commands. Bats makes use of
Bash's `errexit` (`set -e`) option when running test cases. If every
command in the test case exits with a `0` status code (success), the
test passes. In this way, each line is an assertion of truth.

See `bats`(7) for more information on writing Bats tests.


RUNNING TESTS
-------------

To run your tests, invoke the `bats` interpreter with a path to a test
file. The file's test cases are run sequentially and in isolation. If
all the test cases pass, `bats` exits with a `0` status code. If there
are any failures, `bats` exits with a `1` status code.

You can invoke the `bats` interpreter with multiple test file arguments,
or with a path to a directory containing multiple `.bats` files. Bats
will run each test file individually and aggregate the results. If any
test case fails, `bats` exits with a `1` status code.


OPTIONS
-------

  * `-c`, `--count`:
    Count the number of test cases without running any tests
  * `-h`, `--help`:
    Display help message
  * `-p`, `--pretty`:
    Show results in pretty format (default for terminals)
  * `-t`, `--tap`:
    Show results in TAP format
  * `-v`, `--version`:
    Display the version number


OUTPUT
------

When you run Bats from a terminal, you'll see output as each test is
performed, with a check-mark next to the test's name if it passes or
an "X" if it fails.

    $ bats addition.bats
     ✓ addition using bc
     ✓ addition using dc

    2 tests, 0 failures

If Bats is not connected to a terminal--in other words, if you run it
from a continuous integration system or redirect its output to a
file--the results are displayed in human-readable, machine-parsable
TAP format. You can force TAP output from a terminal by invoking Bats
with the `--tap` option.

    $ bats --tap addition.bats
    1..2
    ok 1 addition using bc
    ok 2 addition using dc


EXIT STATUS
-----------

The `bats` interpreter exits with a value of `0` if all test cases pass,
or `1` if one or more test cases fail.


SEE ALSO
--------

Bats wiki: _https://github.com/sstephenson/bats/wiki/_

`bash`(1), `bats`(7)


COPYRIGHT
---------

(c) 2014 Sam Stephenson

Bats is released under the terms of an MIT-style license.



